Building team structure, well now you are responsible for your team,
how should your team be structured?
What are their roles and responsibilities?
Let's explore those topics in this section.
Is structure important?
Yes, very important.
I don't care how big or small your team is,
poor organizational design and structure results in confusion within roles,
a lack of coordination among functions, failure to share ideas,
and slow decision making.
All these can bring your team members unnecessary complexity,
stress, and conflict.
A sound organizational structure ensures that your team has
the right people in the right positions.
Informal structures can lead to the lack of who is responsible for what.
I never leave this to doubt.
Now there are a variety of ways you may want to structure or align your team,
maybe by customer,
that is one or more people on your team are responsible for all products,
all applications, and all services that relate to that customer.
This would be one stop shopping for your customer.
They have one focal point and it makes it easy for them to engage you.
By application or product,
that is one or more people on your team are responsible for the one
application or suite of applications or products.
In this case your team would be very knowledgeable and
experts of these applications and would be supporting
typically a wide range of customers.
Maybe a team is supporting a CRM application or the suite of all
applications that support the sales process.
And possibly by service or function.
This is somewhat similar as by application,
where one or more people on your team are responsible for the one
service or a suite of services or functions.
In this case your team would be, again,
very knowledgeable and experts of these services and would
be supporting a wide range of customers.
Maybe a team is supporting an ad hoc reporting service or an email
service or a collection of cloud utility services.
And lastly, scalability.
And what I mean by this is without structure,
if you try to scale, that is add more employees,
grow in products or services, you're going to have chaos.
With some amount of structure,
scalability can be allowed to flourish and grow your organization.
Okay,
having a structure of who is responsible for what provides clear
management support and guidance for your team members.
So when you are structuring your new group,
come up with a design for each of these,
then ask, does it make sense, is it affordable,
and more forward.
Nothing is in concrete,
give it a go for a few months then inspect and adapt and change if necessary.
Now let's do an example of organizing your team.
So to continue our theme,
you've just started as the manager and you have five
people in the sales app support area.
Now we're going to reach back into our Service Level Agreement
document we did in the previous module and our service
description is to provide all application development and support
for the sales application portfolio.
And also the details are that you have a system called Prospects and
we called another system the Salesforce Interface,
another system the ERP, Enterprise Resource Planning,
Interface.
Now I have titled this slide from chaos to structure for a reason.
I have seen many organizations and departments that are just a bunch of
random people working real hard and doing a pretty good job,
but I believe very strongly that with structure,
roles,
and responsibilities you can significantly improve performance and
provide a platform for scalability into the future.
Okay, let's check out the next slide and how I would organize your new team.
Alright so we have the SLA as a backdrop and what we want to do
now is look at what do we have at our disposal?
What are our as-is-personnel?
Today I have two people who work on Prospects.
I have one person who works on Salesforce interface about half time.
I have one new person that was assigned to me.
I have also a person who's working on the ERP interface.
So my total head count are five people.
So I have my SLA as a backdrop so I know what I'm supposed to be doing.
Here are the five people that were assigned to me and I've
just been promoted to be a new manager.
How might that structure look?
Okay let's take a look at that in the next slide.
So here's a concept and approach for your new organization.
First off, I like leaders and leadership roles,
that is someone is clearly in charge at all times,
no fuzz, for all the things you are responsible for.
Okay, of course there is you.
And how I might do it, I might align along applications and functions as follows.
First, the Prospect System.
I'll probably put a leader there,
and be responsible for all aspects of the Prospect
System across multiple customers.
Next, Salesforce Interface,
I look at that a little bit more as a function than an application.
I want a leader there as well.
Next, the ERP Interface, that's kind of a function as well.
I want a leader to be there also.
So of your five team member,
maybe three will be those leaders as I have proposed here.
And the remaining folks, of course,
are just remaining team members that could work for any of the leaders
or directly for you on any assignments whatsoever.
So it has a simple structure,
you know who's in charge for what application and function,
and the members know this as well.
Plus they know they can also work for anyone.
Those remaining team members will be a pool of people.
Now again, I'm going to talk more about roles and responsibilities,
but I look at these as roles.
Maybe the leader of the Salesforce Interface is the
same person as the ERP Interface,
but these are three clear roles of responsibility that I
will staff on the following slides.
Now for one five people, you likely don't need a true org chart,
but this really is quite clear.
But you do need these clear roles and responsibilities so
everyone knows what is expected of them. Now let's also build those roles and responsibilities in the next slides.